# AI_Focused_Political_Capitalism
AI-Focused Political Capitalism is an analytical framework to study multi-layered and systemic public policy for artificial intelligence. 

Abstract—This paper delves into the intricate interplay between societal and algorithmic bias, revealing how attempts to mitigate biases as a computational problem are inherently limited. Biases, deeply ingrained in social structures and conditions, were the seeds of the early generations of algorithmic development that underpin our present reality. This innovation, fostered and supported by government resources, harnessed political capitalism, shaping public policy around the development and deployment of algorithms for generations. However, this public policy is a robust, complex system, exhibiting self-organization, adaptive interactions, and emergent properties that transform individual behaviors into collective phenomena. In other words, public policy that aims to curb negative impacts must operate across multiple levels—community, local, state, and federal—and evaluate their effects through adaptive feedback mechanisms. This encompasses the use of user data in predictive analytics markets, the physical and human infrastructure affected by artificial intelligence, the optimization and feedback mechanisms that have fostered extremism and radicalization, and the underexamined user bias that has shifted an unbalanced power dynamic between user and platform owner, all of which are symptoms of this complex system. We propose algorithm-focused political capitalism as an analytic framework to unravel the myriad forces influencing outcomes, facilitating more effective navigation of our dynamic and evolving social landscape and a means to democratize social power around a technology that shapes societal institutions at the speed of competition and rapid adoption.
